---
Read: true
Author: Yinghao Chen
Year: 2023
tags:
  - testgeneration
  - llm
---
The authors explore an LLM based test generation algorithm and also provide a toolchain for integration into popular IDEs. Their proposed algorithm, ChatUniTest, improves upon prior works [[TestSpark - IntelliJ IDEA's Ultimate Test Generation Companion]] by providing the LLM with more information such as relevant method / class signatures from the project. The primary contribution the authors make is *adaptive focal context mechanism* which makes starts with the focal method and adds information based on the relevance to the focal method tests are being generated for. This allows the LLM to have a smaller context while still retaining the information it needs.
## Validation
Another important aspect is the validation and repair of the generated unit tests. Initial unit tests generated by the algorithm might have syntactic errors, leading to poor unit tests. In the approach, the authors make use of the LLM to repair the unit tests generated based on the errors and have three forms of validation: syntactic validation, compile validation, and runtime validation.
## Results
The results show that ChatUniTest has a performance improvement over the other approaches, but other approaches outperform the approach in some cases.
## My Notes
- The paper seems to be a good starting point for test generation algorithms that make use of an LLM. The paper provides a clear approach toward building a test generation framework that makes use of the information provided by the AST and also has repair features.
- Modifications to the algorithm would allow for the addition of different components.